welcome to the in web browsers and ipfs
qet weekly sinkhole as is customary we
should do a round of what I worked on
last week that I'd like to highlight to
the community and what I plan to work on
next week we'll go in document water
which starts with Lydell incredible
why would you like to share with us what
you were working on this week like
sharing my screen still a good one yep
so updates were mostly work around type
it has companion and think starts happen
around it so I allocated some time to
finally get embedded JS ipfs work with
within web extension context in breath
and to do that I had to do some
refactoring of JS ipfs the way it
initializes HTTP servers for historical
reasons it was bound to command line
commands Jessica first demon and a lot
of orchestration that was not related to
HTTP servers happened there so I did a
minimum decoupling of HTTP logic so that
that logic could be used in other
context and command line so this is a
work in progress appear I don't want it
like I I'm not sure if it won't change
or I don't have to add anything else to
this so it's draft for now but what's
interesting is in in this work in brain
built with chrome sockets branch of
ideas company so I managed with those
changes to J's idea first and some other
small tweaks I managed to get HTTP
servers start with HD within HTTP
browser so and we that happened before
but now the HTTP servers are actually
server start
bye Jess ipfs so if you're interested
links are in notes but I believe I may
be able to show you a quick quick demo
maybe so this is brave this is bright
this is a like custom-built of brave but
I should be able to stand like ongoing
effort to white list also a better
channel so we will be able to show
people and ask people to play with it
with factual break without a special
deal but for now it's ranked on a
special deal so this is a IPS companion
built from the that's future branch and
now when I start it you can see some
stuff happened and messages are not like
polished yet because those were meant
for shell but yep you can see there's JP
first Ronnie
most of UI is still not updated to take
advantage of all those new powers but
what happened behind the scenes maybe
I'll show you a configuration that will
be making stuff more clear so you can
see that in activist companion
configuration the node type is an
embedded one and for that embedded one
there's a special custom config which
enables a API and gateway on TCP ports
so it's port 5002
and 1919 and if we wanted to play with
those voila so what happened here I love
that API v-0 ID path from API part which
is a REST API for controlling our demon
so that's the powerful API we don't have
to enable API part we can only enable
the gateway that's up
like that's something we'll decide later
but for now we can see that it's a
response from JSI give us and it's
working just like you would do with go
activist and what's more interesting is
that we also have the gateway port and
the Gateway port is some 1990 and this
is director listening for all remember
the Jazz ipfs so that's fun and I was
very happy to do to see that just worked
after a lot of fixes but it works so
what does not work yet is like direct
director releasing a work but opening
actual file returns some unexpected JSON
I suspect that some polyfills are not
valid or there's some mismatch between
polyfills and the node version we are
running so but it's something we should
be able to fix not I think that does not
work yet is when I shut down the node it
does not really update diagram so it's
another thing that needs to be
investigated but I'm very happy with
director listen listen so I wanted to
share that with you and the plan is to
basically update this UI so it has all
those features that regular external
node gives you opening web UI with
embedded note and stuff like that will
be possible again and we also would like
to improve this part of preferences when
probably full configuration will still
be valid but things like Khan
configuring different ports or providing
automatic port discovery because you
have this port already used the things
like that will be very useful so
the plan is to iterate on that on the
beta channel and we want to experiment
with UI using the beta channel and when
we are happy with effect then we'll
probably start talking about adding a
toggle in bright preferences to enable
the stable channel but for now it will
be opt in for the better channel so that
was like a longer demo and I stopped
showing my screen but I should start
again so the plan is for the next week
if time allows I will continue this work
but time will probably not allow too
much so I just want to mention that we
have some really better releases of ipfs
companion as well like for regular
browsers and there's like today with new
web UI and other battles are already
terror so if you are in the beta channel
you have those changes already plan is
to promote those changes to the stable
channel and spent the next week in this
bond too hard and our next quarter and
that's all sorry for no sorry I can't
believe he tricked a web page into
opening ports and behaving as a server
and it didn't all work flawlessly first
time question eyelash or highlighter I
have two questions if that's okay real
quick the poor request you said it's
working progress is it you requested a
review shall I look at it or wait well
no wait wait
like for a previous companion we are we
are having yarn bill based build so I
just like hard-coded specific commits it
doesn't block and I think and I don't
want to like take your time until it's
stabilized right cool
and the other question is more about the
exciting demo that you just did the
swarm addresses I noticed they were
empty are you going to start listening
on
warm addresses so that we can so like a
local NGO could connect to it and I have
a question is does the is is brave going
to expose like mdns stuff is possible
through the chrome socket probably not
yeah so the like listening on that TCP
port and basically enabling TCP
transport it should be possible to work
on that because those API server already
wait-listed
I just disabled everything apart from
the Gateway just to make logs clearer
but it should it might just work
or we may invest some time but I believe
TCP transport should we should be able
to make it work with existing guys for
the local discovery and them DNS you
mentioned there is an API for local
discovery in the chromium OS but I don't
I'm not sure if it's like compliant with
the spec that we plan to implement I
believe that was like specific to alt
draft on w3c like network discovery spec
that's not the one we're using so I did
not dig in too deep into that but
there's a long story short there is an
API but I'm not sure if it's usable for
our case so we may be able to use it or
we will have to build our own the good
thing is that we have access to UDP
sockets like ro UDP sockets though so
the worst case scenario would be we will
like implement like local discovery
protocol in userland like I mean first
step it would be awesome to start
listening on TCP port for swarm
connections and then get a local go ipfs
to just do a swarm connect to the
browser and then those should just be
rare that would be good demo yeah
no more questions yeah does this mean we
can do all the fancy proxy stuff as well
yes so if the HTTP proxy feature lands
in J's ipfs it would work here as well
that's a short answer can you expand on
the fancy proxy feature yeah yeah so
like the fancy proxy feature is the idea
that our gateway port could double as an
HTTP proxy so if you set it up as an LD
proxy in your web browser
and you request some magical hosts let's
say that ipfs that localhost then that
proxy would create the domain name on
the fly and just respond just with that
no domain name giving you a sec origin
based security parameter and some other
stuff super cool
all right any other questions no moving
on we've accidentally left the school at
when a new account join us so I will
announce his updates because it's a good
one we released Ibis desktop after much
of weeding going public with all our
hard work
we couldn't avoid it any longer and we
released it so now there is a link
desktop app on that ipfs tyonne website
for the first time ever and if you open
it up there's now handy dandy in links
to installers ohdon't seven and it's a
real many more adapt now no messing
around and we now can see downloads for
platform which is kind of fun for our
metrics gathering you can see downloads
by the current version is 419 we really
expect last night and there's been
forward in writing down words already -
that's kind of fun
that takes into account people who have
already got installed an of Auto updated
and if you haven't installed it yeah
then you've missed out on the fun
installer that hack made which has a
gigantic globe and a solar flare I mean
come on
and you pop that in your applications
and their places
OMG mega boys look at you have a good
speech from the latest girl cuteness it
is out there we found a bug in it you go
find a bug in it almost instantly and it
was an absolute showstopper which is a
timely reminder of that I think this
would be I relaxed sufficient end-to-end
tests particularly around the high value
workflows of adding files topic events
so that is now on top of my list of
things to do but it's not about me this
is about Henry what else did you do or
he made he made like real good look
that's some janky code you don't look at
this guy know this guy this guy this guy
looks like is it one of these things you
can now be IP pets no you can never be
through really task info IP offense and
wait a few seconds and oMG you can
install desktop from home group or if
your windows you can install it from
chocolaty so he's had a business and
it's great did it get a dirt so he
suggested you go there and try I suspect
you will have already but if you haven't
dude
Howard sure any questions on the 7
release something in a chair how incense
is is Otto updated and
I'm glad because we've also fixed a bug
in that whereby on Mac auto-update would
fail if like the FX demon took a long
time to stop so we have now ruthlessly
added a timeout thank you to Hugo's work
on my BFS controlled demon we give I've
been there's three seconds to shut down
cleanly otherwise we shut it down
uncleanly because quite like these are
experience of water updating to work and
the desktop app also knows how to
recover from them and clean shutdown so
seems harmless
I'm sure someone will tell people that's
a terrible idea at some point but that's
what's happening um any question is yes
silence I can't see your faces please do
so I saw your fix for the files so it's
working great but I think the previews
aren't working properly the trees yeah I
tried like some pictures or image files
or things like pngs and JPEGs and they
don't those can do depend I haven't seen
that that's not something that we know
about because there's an extension
called privacy butter and if you have it
running on like localhost web web pages
and stuff like that and you have an
image loaded from the public gateway on
ipfs io by default the default
configuration will block the image so I
submitted like a bug report to them
that's like like if as IO should be
whitelisted it does not require a cookie
so you can like block it
sending cookies but it should be
wait-listed because it's useful and gave
a few links you may check if you have it
running it locked in my case
some local websites like our images on
local ever websites and that's my
question is shouldn't we use a like a
local gateway instead of public gateway
Christmas I think it's hard coded to the
public gateway yeah you should
absolutely smoke a way yeah
hear that you should just file a issue
on my PFS might be one and another
question how can we is jst instead of
coding in in tests oh yes the the config
file that desktop uses to store its
daemon advanced need to and then
configure this to connect to it
yeah ultimately it's not supported
feature right now so you'd have to do
some work it is a feature that has been
requested
please I'll finally issue and put plus
1y or unbounded generosity good thank
you
it's always good to get your feature
requests live on camera
any other question no good means I might
get somewhat done this thank you okay
I'm sure do you want to share a thing
[Music]
okay hi can I just say having desktop
and companion on the website is super
good super good news is one of the first
things that we talked about when we
started working with companion were like
we just need the website to point people
at least thing some 18 months later yeah
so um so yeah it's really nice to see
okay can you see my screen now yes
pointing at the relevant document that
we're all looking at also yes yes good
okay all right right so you will
probably already know it by now but go
ipfs depth the npm module that allows
you to install go ipfs was released for
the new version of go my PFS last week I
think we'd release the pre-release
version but that was working so I
released it good and proper and so
that's good
so I okay so this is kind of fun before
we couldn't jet ipfs was not able to
listen up I thought I did better better
Docs for this and I think the original
issue had like examples of configuration
you know I think let me just I've
already I fit it in the release notes oh
that's just open those instead cool here
we are so this is what I meant this
thing so the new version of chess ipfs
will allow you to listen on multiple
addresses for your API and gateway and
all you do is in your Jo cyberfest
config you configure it with an array of
strings of multi others for either API
or gateway you can also have none and it
will not blow up like it does currently
and I think I think go does blow up
currently so yeah that's fun anyway so
did that let's move this thing out the
way gap nope wrong here we get all right
so fix for right okay this is a fun one
I will update that other link before Ali
but so yeah when you called cat ipfs cat
with like ipfs qmesh and a path to a
particular file it wasn't working like
you'd get back nothing and it would say
that the file was not fair
even though it was there so I fixed it
so that you can now this one worked but
it's just when it was deeper and if that
didn't work so now it works so hooray
that's okay so this is a new one that
happened today if your things are not
compiling currently with a year or Babel
then that's possibly because about 15
hours ago they will release a new
version a new minor release that
actually will error if you've got to
duplicate declarations of the same hour
let's just look at this this let's not
use words go look one destroy another
function called destroy straight after
hit anyway so this second one wins so
this one's completely redundant and but
the problem is that when this tries to
get if you're using stream to pull
stream there and you're using a new
version of Babel or or whatever or just
using as year to build your things and
then currently if you're using this then
it will error and break and it's because
of this problem there's a pull request
open here yeah now to track that baton
this morning which is kind of annoying
because we didn't change anything
things just stopped working so anyway
that's that and then the last thing last
but not least is the deck HTTP API will
be in 0:35 thanks to Alec CDs I mesh
that in recently and it just adds dag
API v-0 get dag resolved and dag put so
you'll be able to use them from now on
in chair so I'll give s so that's that's
cool glance I'm blocked on the p2p there
is a some features that have been
reviewed that just need to make it in
well I kind of they are features but
they are also bug fixes at the same time
so I'm waiting on that from being
released and then I
think that it all it's all that would be
pending is any issues that we have from
testing and Interop but essentially I
will be starting the Jess IVFs release
train the bundle size stuff would if if
we can get that in that would be nice
but I don't know I'm kind of like it's
waiting in the seeing on that one anyway
but that can always been released as
like a pet release in May so it's a
little bit so blocked on that my next
step is to actually do that release and
I wanted to do some more work this week
on the async iterators endeavor which I
haven't been able to do for a while
because I've been grinding on the zero
phase five release for so long anyway
that's me any questions let me stop
sharing the screen lovely updates Alan
no question so let's move on
[Music]
can you guys see my screen not sure pin
ok so last week I did nothing because I
was on vacations very cool this week I
added the as always showed we have this
cooking for a while in the IP FSI your
websites companion was feeling lonely in
the implementations we were just waiting
for this big release desktop basically
the day auto-update and some other
features but now as it's been updated we
have the two many integrations here on
the on the main website so I did this
and I've been working all most of my
time on the web UI help system
I'd say it's 90%
concluded I updated all the tours with
some feedback that some people gave me I
added a tooltip for the first time that
users come to the to the yby okay so the
first time you come here we want to show
that we have added tours and a way to do
that my network is slow as always right
sorry
laughs damn ring so what I'm doing is
I'm I have a flag on local storage
saying if you already did some action to
that tooltip it won't appear again
okay so the first time you enter on any
page you have this tool tip here that
saying eh you can click on this button
and make the tour show on the the
current page so on every page you you
enter there's that and when you click on
it it just disappears forever
or at least so it seems then what I've
been doing too is as I said updating all
the tours and my main focus this week
was plugging the the translations here
because what I was doing I had like I
had this all the tours decoupled from
the react components and the library
that were using for the translations
works with react but this wasn't react
it was plain JavaScript so I had to find
a way to plug the translations so that's
not what's missing it's just the instead
explored tour exactly yes this this page
is true but for now it's empty because I
have to find a way of doing this I think
I know a way of doing it so I'm hoping
this next Tuesday is finishing it so
next week
this is then and maybe have some
feedback and we can shoot this if you
have if you guys have feedback you can
come to the disco requests and say your
thoughts here and any questions I think
that's it just a custome the the
internationalization libraries is a 18
next the that is not aware of react we
also use the react endings for it but
can use it directly yeah I was trying to
we have a function the translate
function I was trying to to use that on
the objects but I
being able to do that so what I'm doing
basically it's passing that function on
the react components and it fetches the
files and runs that function there and
it works so we can yeah good connect
online after the cook okay okay any
other questions can't see all your faces
silence it's gonna ask you mr. Diaz is
up next
thank you go what you want to share with
us
okay so what I've been doing a little
bit of research about why this really
doesn't work with ipfs found a bunch of
stuff and now we'll try to fix it later
because right now I'm trying to finish
the concise stuff in time for the new
dates maybe maybe not let's see also did
review the proper log file issue that we
found and Alan found a way to solve it
and yeah basically all I'm doing is
finishing the gsfs monocytes pull
requests all the dependencies all the
dependency related issues are fixed I'm
now trying to fix internal or internal
issues most of them are related to the
new way of validating the config since
others are kind of weird and I'm having
a little bit of trouble finding the
source of state ships but yeah I'll try
to finish everything this week and now
we'll work more on the peer support and
I think it's Raiders and when I don't as
is poking questa ready for reveal I will
also anything that anyone here can dig
help abundance of stuff Allen says
please can hands bundle size for the old
of 35 release anything that anyone else
can do to help I will probably need help
in at least two of the issues I'm having
now with the tests because I have no
idea why they are happening and from the
changes I did doesn't seem to be related
the fact is here there and the tests are
failing so I'll probably ask Alan to
help me out and review the code we need
some time like tomorrow or something
when he has time okay um feel free to
ask the rest of us before Helen because
he'll be trying to chuck social okay
next up Oh easily
who's that guy this be Cooper do I have
largely highlighted the interesting
stuff they worked on it was mostly okay
this desktop fixes for release um
I learnt the hard way that he shouldn't
mess around with reg X's without tests
and that led to us releasing so the
chain of events was we I did a big one
true work to polish the analytic stuff
and part of the analytic studies looking
at the redox actions what do i does to
tell us things like when someone makes a
new directory when someone at the file
and that used to be a very like fuzzy
regex or just like look for protections
that look a bit like this but that has
the Nesta side-effect and you aren't
being explicit about which actions
you're tracking and so then you can't be
clear to the users what being tracks are
then as part of the work to make that
more transparent I got converted into a
very explicit list of fractions anywho I
messed around with radio clears there
was one action that I didn't spot that
didn't fit the pattern so it got through
to some coalition of them and because my
tracking logic is right up in the middle
where of redux when it failed it caused
the file upload to fail which is
terrible and that whole path needs to be
much better tested so anyway web you I
have that bug in it in two point four
point two and that made it into a
desktop release and then I announced it
for everybody almost like oh install it
and Hugo flit him he did install it and
he quickly told me
problems so we got a fix out in the next
couple of hours because that is bad
because mapping files is the cool
feature anything so that was a chunk of
my week what else to do I am cooking up
some ideas around building a service for
so a lot of my time has been taken out
from reworking our continuous
integration continuous deployment
pipeline for all of our websites we have
like way more web sites than you think
we do however many web sites you think
we have a lot we have twice that amount
and they will use to get built by
Jenkins and now they don't get built or
they are getting built by the new
continuous deployment pipeline that have
started rolling out which is great I was
then super specific with my docker image
versions and medaka image bakes in a
version of the ipfs cluster control
binary and they all point to our central
my penis cluster instance and Hector has
released an e-version locators cluster
so they're like 20 pull requests that
I've got going to add this to a quarter
of our websites and now all need
updating because I have to roll out a
new image with the new cluster control
things many not very exciting but that's
that has led me to be thinking perhaps
there's a better way of doing so I spent
it at the moment day and setting up my
own ipfs cluster on a digital ocean
droplet and just running through the
ansible scripts and getting a feel for
that process and it's pretty good it
worked and there was some holes and
documentation so I patched those and I
grated those things that was a useful
process and so now I'm fleshing out some
motifs in preparation for our meetup
next week to talk about the ipfs website
deployment service that I'm
experimenting with right now that's
installed folks
so I'm not block to anything and the
rest my week is going to be taken up
with I do this campus admin and okay I
mean so nothing to explain from me
Derek says no noteworthy might be thanks
good work is there anything that you
would like to talk about Erik oh you
just want to listening and you think you
had nothing noteworthy you can kind of
you got a pretty smile II banana friend
yeah I did that that was that that was
the sum total of my accomplishments no I
let a lot of IPS my PFS gooey stuff but
you know file coin branding and other
non girly type distractions looking
forward to that changing quickly with
next week and starting to get OPRS okay
ours figured out okay memories okay okay
are an hour so far nice he's back on it
you know well again I can tell the puns
are on the increase Terry everything
hello hello yes so in an effort to
document things I've actually done
instead of just feeling about it nice
about myself for not accomplishing
anything let me just surface offline
camp I'm sure most of you have heard me
go on about my first movement before but
if any of you are excited about that and
have friends who are excited about that
you should register your interest in
this interest form and we make sure that
people are know about the next event
announced they're still top secret
states in the patient and then the
biggest thing that I could use your help
on which I have mentioned before but
have made a lot more progress on is that
I'm working on about for proto school as
it prepares to be its own top level
projects the way that you can most help
me is to suggest things that would help
you accomplish your educational goals in
the format of proto school
so there's link there to an issue that's
open which already has a few notes about
for example some content that might be
created for ipfs camp but I'm sure there
are lots of ideas beyond that and I'd
love to figure out what's the best way
to like capture stuff that's coming out
of your big meeting next week a week
following or whenever it is what's the
best way for us to connect if you want
me to join you a virtual e for part of
it however you want to deal with that I
think I think I need to set up a
schedule for it and I think they should
just plan to have a like let's let's pin
like 45 minutes or we play gin on things
we can do for pro school and things
products cool can do for us hopefully by
that and I'll be a little feeling a
little more settled about the roadmap so
I can give you kind of a sneak preview
the biggest piece that's relevant there
is like what are the limitations of the
format because a lot of suggest things
that are like what they feel to me
anyway I'll just go p-- so kind of
honing in on like what are the next
things we can do and one of the things
that create a nice smooth content
progression without leaving the gaps
yeah so let me know if you want to help
with scheduling East Coast friendly it
would be lovely for that chunk of it
this one time as I came to you right
okay we've dropped off the bottom of the
list Dietrich is so so fresh so clean
the is there any any feelings you'd like
to import what are you looking at how
many documents yesterday see anything
crime scenes
I'm taking a really organic approach
just every time somebody like links to
an issue in a repo somewhere that I
think is interesting
I just subscribe and eventually I will
subscribe probably too much of that but
I feel like that gives me this could
have you know higher level view of a
whole bunch of different places in just
a little slice it's great because that's
the only way to guarantee freshness
I think if links are being shed now
they're probably relevant and really see
where because right now I feel like my
yeah my networks okay um there's no
explicit agenda points so if anyone has
anything to make desperate talked about
say now otherwise we are in danger of
finishing this Oh in danger of finishing
this ya know Alan sure
please D your videos freeze it with your
hand er no you know what doing better
stop moving you know how benefits work
and there you go
or in mention that I don't think I
forgot to man it I do don't think it's
very last week but yeah okay I should
have mentioned it last week I'm going to
share my screen quickly but the awesome
thing that Hugo has done the I'm not
sure has been mentioned on this cool is
that
it's the bundle size stuff and I know he
did mention it in his update but it's
worth again because they're httpclient
which I released earlier in the week is
so much smaller than it used to be it's
like it's like if 3% also smaller now
which is sound as the progress have been
merged and released so this is good all
good work and hopefully now that this is
done this is a major step toward
in the same and so this is very coolest
this is like saving of
like so this one I have 200 kilobytes of
non gzip better which is just incredible
and so yeah just thanks again you go for
all of the work I mean we got your with
you smell and your bandwidth is not your
connection is not we got the gist of you
know mines way better apparently not
because he still moves and talk so we
can understand them but I only was
trying to say it's totally rad thanks
you go we appreciate we appreciate you
you're doing good work sometimes goes
unnoticed yet come on in okay you snuck
into the microphone you did a good job
it's very good thank you
it's small now thank you thank you
teamwork makes the dream work alright
well this has been the octopus in web
browsers and GUI team weekly sync up
cool the two working groups that could
never separate remain stronger together
see you at same time same place next
week Terra